# SAS Viya Monitoring for Kubernetes

## Version 1.0.1 (14Dec20)

* **Overall**
  * **[BREAKING CHANGE]** - The default passwords for both Grafana and Kibana
  are now randomly generated by default. The generated password is logged
  during the initial deployment. It is possible to explicitly set each
  password via environment variables or `user.env` files.
  * TLS support has been enhanced with improved logging and more accurate
  checking of when `cert-manager` is required
  * Helm 2.x has reached end-of-life and support for it has been removed
* **Monitoring**
  * The `KubeHpaMaxedOut` alert has been modified to only trigger if the
  max replicas is > 1
* **Logging**
  * Refactored deployment/removal scripting internals
  * Added new dashboards & visualizations to Kibana
  * Added support for non-standard Docker root

## Version 1.0.0 (18Nov20)

This is the first public release.

* **Overall**
  * Minor edits and cleanup to README files and sample user response files

* **Monitoring**
  * Grafana version bumped to 7.3.1
  * Prometheus Operator version bumped to 0.43.2
  * Prometheus version bumped to 2.22.2
  * Prometheus Pushgateway version bumped to 1.3.0

## Version 0.1.3 (11NOV20)

* **Overall**
  * [Helm 2.x has reached end-of-life](https://github.com/helm/helm/releases/tag/v2.17.0)
  and is no longer supported. Helm 3.x is now required.
  * Support added for the [SAS Viya Workload Node Placement](https://go.documentation.sas.com/?cdcId=itopscdc&cdcVersion=default&docsetId=dplyml0phy0dkr&docsetTarget=p0om33z572ycnan1c1ecfwqntf24.htm&locale=en)
    * By default, monitoring and logging pods are deployed to untainted nodes
    * A new flag, `NODE_PLACEMENT_ENABLE` supports deploying pods to appropriate
    workload node placement nodes

* **Monitoring**
  * Several helm charts have moved from [stable](https://charts.helm.sh/stable)
  to [prometheus-community](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts).
  * The [prometheus-operator](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/prometheus-operator)
  helm chart has been deprecated and moved to
  [kube-prometheus-stack](https://github.com/prometheus-community/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/kube-prometheus-stack).
  * SAS Java and Go ServiceMonitors converted to PodMonitors to properly
  support merged services

* **Logging**
  * Support for SAS Viya move to Crunchy Data 4.5
  * Support for [changing retention period](logging/Log_Retention.md) of log messages
  * Node anti-affinity for Elasticsearch replicas
  * Support for multi-role Elasticsearch nodes (including [sample](samples/esmulti/README.md)
  to demonstrate usage) 
  * Additional documentation on using TLS
  * Removed traces of support for ODFE "demo" security configuration
  * [Alternate monitoring solution](logging/AZURE_LOG_ANALYTICS_WORKSPACES.md)(proof-of-concept): Fluent Bit
  ==> Azure Monitor (Log Analytics workspace)

## Version 0.1.2 (20OCT20)

* **Monitoring**
  * Support for sas-elasticsearch metric collection
  * Refreshed Istio dashboard collection
  * Samples refactored out of monitoring/logging directories into a top-level
  `samples` directory. Additionally, each subdirectory is structured to be
  compatible with [`USER_DIR`](README.md/#customization) customizations.
  * A new sample, [`generic-base`](samples/generic-base) has been created as
  a template for customization. It contains a full set of user response files
  available to customize.
  * Documentation for the samples has been improved
* **Logging**
  * Kubernetes events are now stored in the index associated with the namespace
  of the source of the event instead of a global (cluster) index
  * Multiple fixes to RBAC scripts

## Version 0.1.1 (22SEP20)

* Adjust to breaking Helm 3.3.2 change([Issue #1](https://github.com/sassoftware/viya4-monitoring-kubernetes/issues/1))
* Refactored samples into a top-level `samples` directory
* Force in-cluster TLS for logging ([Issue #2](https://github.com/sassoftware/viya4-monitoring-kubernetes/issues/2))

## Version 0.1.0 (16Sept20)

* Initial versioned release
